# Chess Analytics Project ♟

As an avid chess player, I’m always eager to explore new strategies and refine my skills. One day, while playing on the Chess.com app, I began to wonder if I could apply statistical analysis to my gameplay history. A quick Google search revealed that Chess.com offers a public API, and in that moment, inspiration struck. I decided to channel my curiosity into a project, diving into the data to (hopefully) uncover meaningful insights and patterns.

The first program I created was a search tool to collect and display game data for a single user. I developed this tool for two reasons: to determine if there were any high-level patterns in my gameplay history, and to become familiar with the API. One insight I discovered was that I generally had a higher level of success when I played the Sicilian Defense opening, however for one particular variation of that opening I lost almost all my games.

The second program I created gathered a sample of 5,800 random rapid-speed chess games from the API for players around my skill level.  I wanted to see if I could find some insights in this data to help improve my own game, so I engineered features that I thought might potentially explain wins. I focused on creating features based on the opening phase of the game, such as whether a player moved their queen in the first 12 moves. A data dictionary of all the features can be found in the file "Chess_Game_Data_Final.xlsx", located in the Data folder. 

The final program I created was an R program to test the significance of the features I engineered via building Logistic Regression models. The final project summary can be viewed via the link in the "About" section. If you have any questions about this project, feel free to reach out to me on LinkedIn at https://www.linkedin.com/in/james~faber/.
